









COINS Case Study | Liberty Electric Implements mobile Crew Daily Reports | Case Studies | COINS Global






















 
 
 




   
































































 




 


COINS Construction CloudCOINS SureStart 




Client Area


+1 518 242 7200









See Software in Action 

UK & IE
USA
Australia
Middle East







 




Home
Company
Solutions
Case Studies
Services
Blog
Contact






   Solutions                  Project Delivery                            Finance and Operations                            Time Management                            Supply Chain Management                            Service Management              By Industry                  General Contracting                            MEP                            Civil Engineering/Heavy Highway                            Residential Development                            Design and BIM                            Specialty Contracting               Spotlight Contact COINS                      Delivery                            Technical                            Training                            Consulting                            Support               Spotlight Request More Information                      About COINS                            Global Locations                            Careers                            Security                            Policies              















SHARE

       


  Liberty Electric Implements mobile Crew Daily Reports

Liberty Electric has one mission, and that is to “drastically improve how public works construction is managed, implemented and accounted for.” With over 25 years of construction experience, Liberty understands the complexities within the construction industry and has a reputation for consistently delivering projects on time at a competitive cost. Challenge
In the past few years Liberty has grown substantially as they acquired new business. With the growth and success, they faced challenges that many contractors experience during rapid growth, including connecting field to office to ensure efficiency during key business processes. The lack of data connectivity became more inefficient, costly, and slowed down operations. 

Solution
Liberty needed a construction-specific technology solution for time collection and payroll that would increase efficiency and accuracy, automate processes and improve communications. 

Project Details
One of their challenges was collecting accurate labor time from the field. As the company grew and field crews expanded, the foremen spent considerably more time keying in data, and manually matching cost codes.
Another challenge was the lack of integration with the existing time collection solution, which did not provide a drop-down list of cost codes. That required the back office to generate and distribute weekly cost code reports to the field. Even with current lists, the manual data entry of cost codes left room for data entry errors that were only realized when the back office entered these timecards. The duplication of effort from rekeying the data into payroll increased the opportunity for new errors, and it took 8 hours to key weekly crew hours into payroll.
The Outdated Time-Collection Process
Liberty’s foremen had been using a mobile form to enter crew hours and cost codes each day. At the end of each week, individual timecards were submitted to the office manager to prepare payroll. Each timesheet could have 10 or more cost codes per day, which resulted in thousands of rows of time entry that had to be manually rekeyed. It could take a foreman 3-4 hours each week to type crew hours into the mobile forms, and manually look up cost codes because the mobile form did not offer that functionality.
Once complete, all timecards were then emailed to the project manager for approval. The project manager would review and forward approved timecards to the office manager who then had to manually key the data into payroll – a process that took eight hours to complete. The Controller then had to open and manually review each timecard.
There was potential for data entry errors before and after payroll was processed. If an incorrect cost code had been keyed in, it would interrupt the payroll process and the payroll manager would request the correct code from the project manager.
The Goal to Connect Data
Liberty wanted a web-based construction-specific technology solution for time collection and payroll that would increase efficiency and accuracy, automate processes and improve communications. The company had several goals to overcome the time collection and data-entry issues.
• a modern, scalable time-collection solution that integrated with payroll.• a simple solution for foremen and project managers, with minimal input requirements to prevent unnecessary errors.• a web-based, time-collection solution that would scale in parallel with Liberty’s growth.
Moving to the Cloud

When COVID-19 hit, we found that we were already set up, already ready to go. We were already using TEAMS for communication between our offices, so internally it didn’t rock us like it did a lot of people that were struggling to work from home. We were already doing it. We didn’t even have an equipment issue. Everything seemed to go very smoothly.
Brenda Baldwin, Controller Liberty Electric

Rapid Implementation, Testing, and Go-Live
Liberty selected the COINS mCDR solution for time collection because it was built for field construction. The timeline to select and implement the mCDR solution was incredibly fast because Liberty employees were motivated to solve their industry needs with an industry solution.




 December 21, 2020


 COINS mCDR was installed




 December 23, 2020


 Implementation meeting for COINS mCDR




 December 24, 2020


 Data was tested in a training environment and then copied over to the production environment




 December 31, 2020


 Liberty Electric was provided with usernames and passwords, along with instructions to download COINS mCDR




 January 4, 2021


 Field crews began using COINS mCDR for the next payroll period





Once I had the information I needed and the program, I was able to get it implemented right away. 
Brenda Baldwin, Controller, Liberty Electric


 

User Adoption Was Seamless
Liberty experienced no issues during implementation or testing, and the process went smoothly. COINS mCDR was readily adopted and quickly improved operations by reducing duplicate manual entry. It has also reduced errors in coding timesheets.
Liberty Electric Experienced Immediate Benefits
• Automated processes: With COINS mCDR the foremen have access to all active cost codes for each job. This eliminated the need for the Controller to send reports each week to foremen with new cost codes.• User Adoption: COINS mCDR was deployed on January 4, 2021 and was readily accepted by field crews and by the back office. All users of mCDR could complete and submit time on the first day of use.• Time and Cost savings: Administrative tasks for foremen have been reduced on average by 90% weekly. Review and approval time has been reduced by 75% for project managers, and payroll has reduced processing time by 87.5% on a weekly basis.
The Benefits of COINS Construction Cloud Software
COINS software provides full transparency in real-time, and that helps companies protect project margins. Project managers, general contractors, and specialty contractors can access data from the field and manage costs by location, by trade, and by pre-construction versus warranty.
The COINS environment is designed to scale with customer growth. If increased data requirements demand more resources, space, and computer power, they can be added with a few mouse clicks. COINS customers enjoy the benefits of a hosted solution allowing them to focus on other strategic goals.
COINS’ relationship with Microsoft provides reliable service, agility, automation and secure https encrypted connection. Our clients who utilize Azure Active Directory for authentication can login with a single sign-on and leverage existing multi-factor authentication already used to access their Windows environment.
Contact us to learn how COINS mobile Crew Daily Reports can eliminate duplicate data entry, create automated processes, increase efficiencies and reduce costs.
Email:  coinsusa@coins-global.com     Office: 518.424.7222      Request a Demo
 
  Related Case Studies




       Hooper Looks to the Future with COINS    Read More     Watch Video             CCC Group integrations using Web Services integration    Read More     Watch Video       




Subscribe to our Newsletter!







Subscribe




 
















Company


                                    Home                                



                                    Company                                



                                    Solutions                                



                                    Case Studies                                



                                    Services                                



                                    Blog                                



                                    Contact                                





 Solutions Project Delivery Finance and Operations Time Management Supply Chain Management Service Management 


 By Industry General Contracting MEP Civil Engineering/Heavy Highway Residential Development Design and BIM Specialty Contracting 



Services


                                    Overview                                



                                    Delivery                                



                                    Technical                                



                                    Training                                



                                    Consulting                                



                                    Support                                






News


                                    ISO 27001 Certification: COINS aligns with information security best practices                                



                                    Four winning  ideas which aim to transform construction                                



                                    Reduce Operational Costs with Construction Management Software                                



                                    From wall-climbing robots to firestop solutions: COINS Grand Challenge shortlist announced                                



                                    5 Reasons to Choose COINS Construction Financial Management Software                                










 






















Design and Website by 







 © COINS Global 2024
Privacy PolicyDiversity, Equity & InclusionAnti-Slavery PolicyCookie PolicyManage My Data




   






Get jobs by email








Not registered? Sign up here
 
Select Category ...
Select Title ...Mr.Mrs.Miss.Ms.
First Name
Surname
Email
Username
Password
Confirm Password











Already registered?
 
Username
Password











Congratulations! Your email alert has been set up.
      

 






 








Please enter your details here
 
















Already have a Client Area login?
 




























